---
layout: post
tags: null
published: false
title: Linux
---

## A New Post

linux disk space usage - disk space monitoring as it applies to the linux operating system
 
 
Many of the popular Web 2.0 services on the Internet, such as Twitter, Linked In, YouTube, and Google all rely on Linux as their operating system.
 
In 1991, while attending the University of Helsinki, Torvalds became curious about operating systems[31] and frustrated by the licensing of MINIX, which at the time limited it to educational use only.[30] He began to work on his own operating system kernel, which eventually became the Linux kernel.
that became the kernel for operating systems
combination of "free", "freak", and the letter X to indicate that it is a Unix-like system),
Torvalds began the development of the Linux kernel on MINIX and applications written for MINIX were also used on Linux. Later, Linux matured and further Linux kernel development took place on Linux systems.[32] GNU applications also replaced all MINIX components, because it was advantageous to use the freely available code from the GNU Project with the fledgling operating system; code licensed under the GNU GPL can be reused in other projects as long as they also are released under the same or a compatible license. Torvalds initiated a switch from his original license, which prohibited commercial redistribution, to the GNU GPL.[33] Developers worked to integrate GNU components with the Linux kernel, making a fully functional and free operating system.[27]
(a) df command : Report file system disk space usage.

(b) du command : Estimate file space usage.

On the internet you will find plenty of tools for checking disk space utilization in Linux. However, Linux has a strong built in utility called ‘df‘. The ‘df‘ command stand for “disk filesystem“, it is used to get full summary of available and used disk space usage of file system on Linux system.
Using ‘-h‘ parameter with (df -h) will shows the file system disk space statistics in “human readable” format, means it gives the details in bytes, mega bytes and gigabyte.
The “df” command displays the information of device name, total blocks, total disk space, used disk space, available disk space and mount points on a file system.
5.25-inch floppy discs holding a very early version of Linux
Linus Torvalds had wanted to call his invention Freax, a portmanteau of "free", "freak", and "x" (as an allusion to Unix). During the start of his work on the system, he stored the files under the name "Freax" for about half of a year. Torvalds had already considered the name "Linux," but initially dismissed it as too egotistical.[34]
In order to facilitate development, the files were uploaded to the FTP server (ftp.funet.fi) of FUNET in September 1991. Ari Lemmke, Torvald's coworker at the Helsinki University of Technology (HUT) who was one of the volunteer administrators for the FTP server at the time, did not think that "Freax" was a good name. So, he named the project "Linux" on the server without consulting Torvalds.[34] Later, however, Torvalds consented to "Linux".