---
layout: post
published: false
title: Windows 10
---
Should you upgrade to Windows 10?  Upgrading to a new operating system can be a challenging decision.  You probably already have an icon displaying on your system or have alerts popping up frequently to upgrade. 
 
Windows 10 was first introduced in July of 2015. With over 200 million devices running on this new software, it is something to consider. 
 
The upgrade is free to users of Windows 7 and 8.1 to install up until July 2016.  This free upgrade does not apply to XP or Vista and also requires a clean install.
 
 
Windows 10 is very similar to Windows 7 operating system.  Windows 8 made a move to eliminate the Start Menu, which a large number of consumers didn’t like.  Windows 10 has put the Start Menu back into action.
 
 Windows 10 is very easy to use and also has a ton of new features.  Some advantages of this new OS are faster boot times, tighter integration, better security improvements as well as Cortana , virtual desktops without third-party tools and new Action Center for notifications.
 
Cortana is a pretty cool new feature of Windows 10.  Cortana is built in as  personal voice assistance.  Cortana can be convenient not only by voice, but also perfoming web searches and asking questions while getting quick answers.  Cortana can also be used to set reminders, add calendar events and news.
 
One concern of moving to Windows 10 is whether or not all your applications and/or printers will still work.  Upgrading may require downloading of new drivers.  Also, Window media Center will be removed when upgrading to Windows 10, so if you rely on it you may want to evaluate your decision.
 
If you don’t like Windows 10, it is very easy to go back to your old version.  Microsoft has a very uncomplicated process for downgrading by simply clicking a few times and you are done.
 
Always remember before making any changes, make sure your data is backed up and update your servers  before beginning an upgrade or downgrade since the roll back may not work to perfection and could cause some data loss.